He studied at the Vienna University and at the Sorbonne University, Paris and finished Economics with a M.A. in 1974 and Political Sciences with a PhD in 1975. 1975/76 he attended the College of Europe, Bruges, Belgium, studying "Economics of European Integration".[1] 1976 till 1980 Streitenberger worked as economic researcher at the then-largest Austrian bank, the Creditanstalt-Bankverein. 1981–1984 he was economic editor at the public Austrian television ORF. 1985–1989 he was responsible for media policy and corporate planning in the Directorate General of the Austrian television and broadcasting ORF. 1990 he moved to EXPO VIENNA AG Vienna world exposition company which prepared the twin city world exposition Vienna-Budapest planned for 1995. There he was director for public affairs and spokesperson. Just before the project for this world exposition was stopped by a popular vote in Vienna Wolfgang Streitenberger moved to the Lower Austrian capital city planning corporation in St. Pölten. This corporation planned the development of St. Pölten into a capital of the federal state Lower Austria and also constructed its new cultural and governmental buildings. He was member of the board and responsible for communications, innovation, marketing till end 1994. 1996 Streitenberger was nominated official of the European Commission and entrusted with the post of Head of the European Commission Representation to Austria.
The Perkins Tide Mill was located on the north side of Kennebunkport village, on the northeast shore of Mill Stream, a tidal arm of the Kennebunk River. Its main building was an L-shaped wood-frame structure, set on wooden pilings and a rubblestone foundation. It had a cross-gabled roof, and was finished in wooden shingles. The mill interior housed a wide variety of equipment related to the history of its operation as a grist mill, including a waterwheel, grindstones, and gears and shafts. A dam, still partially in evidence, extended across Mill Stream, with a sluiceway near the building.[2]

The mill was built in 1749, and was successively adapted to new technologies until 1939, when it ceased operations. Its original grindstone was imported from England, and the dam was originally granite with pine posts. A new grindstone was imported from France in 1866, and the dam was rebuilt in 1963, with most of the old structure retained under the new.[2] The mill building was destroyed by an arsonist in 1994. In 2006 the property was acquired by the Kennebunkport Conservation Trust, a local historic preservation organization. It is presently working on plans to reconstruct the mill, using timbers from period structures and parts from antique mills.[3]

